# tic-tac-toe
A simple game of tic-tac-toe created using factory functions and module patterns, a new way to write and organize JavaScript code

## Project Logic
This project focuses mainly on the logical side of things, just like most games in history. For the implementation of logic in this project, factory functions and module patterns will be the main tools used. I recently learned about factory functions which bear many similarities to prototypes except for that it trades off some features for things like private variables. This will come in handy as the game of tic-tac-toe has many variables that should be private so they can't be accessed outside of the scope of the function. This will prevent any unwanted changing of variables whether in code or the developer tools. Single instance functions like the game board or player function will be created as an IIFE so that they can follow the module pattern. IIFE creates only a single instance of a function from a function factory and is useful for preventing global variables (many agree that this is bad practice!). Overall the project will mainly focus on the JavaScript and logic side of things and only then will the display and styling come after that.

## Pseudocode
Since tic-tac-toe is a game with rules and logic, pseudocode will come in handy for this project as writing out how the code will be layed out and written beforehand will save many hours of going back and fixing your code. By writing out how the code will be written through every step of the process, pseudocode eliminates any unnecessary codes and features which can bite you in the back if you ever come back to maintain it. I will begin this project by writing my pseudocode onto a paper or doc so that I can get an overview of what features/code goes where and how I can tackle the project as a whole. For a project as complicated and broad as tic-tac-toe, making pseudocode and design plans before diving into coding is the smart and **logical** thing to do.

# Display/Styling
Only after I have made sure that the code runs perfectly in the JavaScript console will I begin to display it on the webpage with interactivity using the DOM methods and CSS tricks I have practiced many times before. This is the second half of the project and just as important as the logical side of things. The webpage is where the user interacts with the code and plays the game after all. For now, I will create a simple yet effective design for the game so that it is not only intuitive, but that it is also effective and bug-free.

## Conclusion
While writing this README.md, I haven't started on the project yet and admit that it seems so daunting right now. There is a lot of things to implement in order to get the website working, but I know that dividing and conquering is the key to success here. Along with writing pseudocode beforehand so I can get a clear idea of what to do, this project will be a lot simpler than it seems. By coding in subsections and then building up from there, I will be able to give myself managable tasks without falling under the pressure of every feature and structure that needs to be coded. And without furthur ado, I will get started on it tomorrow... (It's nighttime OK?)
